# Forecasting-UK-population-by-age.-Multi-output-RNN-vs-single-output-RNN
An investigation of RNN model outputs. Is it better to predict multiple outputs within the same model if the outputs are related? 

Dataset: UK population by age proportions

Orignal data found here: https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat

Recurrent Neural Networks are incredibly versatile. They’ll accept a variety of inputs and can return a variety of outputs.

In this repository are my comparisons of a multi series forecast and a collection of single series forecasts generated by an RNN. Keras api within TensorFlow will be used to make the models.

The data that the models will be trained on is a time series showing the age distribution of the United Kingdom’s population. The series starts in 1954 and terminates in 2017. There are 5 age brackets. The figures are proportions and not the actual number of people in that age bracket.

I would think that this is a good dataset to use for the comparison I intend to make. Firstly the figures are proportions, one bracket/series cannot rise without others falling. Secondly the figures track people’s ages through time. So there’ll be a lot of give and take between the different brackets as people get older. Given these two aspects of the dataset it seems quite reasonable to train a model that predicts all 5 brackets at once. That way the model can take into account the interactions between the different age brackets.

This repository has two notebooks. The first (“EuroStat Pop x Age data shaping”) reduces the original data from EuroStat into the desired metrics we intend to model (the age brackets, the time period and the United Kingdom.) 

The second notebook (“UK Pop X Age RNN models”) shows the construction of multiple RNN models and their output compared to the original data. The first three models attempt to predict all 5 age brackets at once. Finally each age bracket is individually fitted to an RNN model that outputs a single series. The predictions are gathered up and compared to the original data. I then judge which approach was better at forecasting.

Results:

The multi series predictions were considerably inferior to just fitting models to a single series. The assumption that the RNN would learn about the age bracket interactions and thus produce better forecasts did not hold. This is could be due to over fitting. The additional variables may have just added more noise. 

The models used were quite simple. A more advanced model may have produced better results. However the single series predictions were fairly accurate even with simple models and so making something more advanced simply isn’t needed for this particular dataset.
